Design Direction Update:
----------------------------------
Hey guys,

We're excited that archery just launched, and that we were
able to get some number tweaks in that should make the solo,
leveling, and hitting experiences a bit more enjoyable for
all involved (unless you're on the receiving end).

I'm just going to take a moment and give a general
direction as to where we plan on heading moving forward.
There's a lot up for discussion currently, and numbers and
details all need to be worked out still, but in general, we
want to make choosing a specialization feel more impactful
and important than it  currently does.  However, in order 
to do this, we're going to have to trim some excess generic
power from different characters (otherwise we end up in a 
world where people hit harder, have more defense, and have
more utility than they currently do, which is a snowball
effect that is hard to escape from).

I think that mystics, in general, are a good baseline 
moving foward.  Mystics have four specs, and two of them 
grant access to unique powers that feel good to use and are
impactful.  Ideally, we want all classes/characters to have
a choice amongst viable specs, and for all of these specs to
grant unique power to that character or impact the way the
character feels and plays.

For warriors, we are planning tweaks to Wild Fighting to 
make it feel more like a raging berserker, as opposed to
something that every warrior takes because it's the only
option.  We also plan on adding a Defender specialization 
that utilizes shields better than other characters (and in 
interesting ways), and an Armor specialization that allows
warriors to feel like, well, knights in  shining armor that
can ride into battle without ever having to remove that
glorious platemail that they are accustomed to.

For rangers, we are planning tweaks to the Stealth and 
Animals specializations. For stealthy rangers, this means
staying on foot for longer and more easily  moving around
the battlefield unseen, choosing their time to strike wisely.
For animal rangers, it means more choices (that mean 
something) when it comes to choosing a tame, and tankier/
harder-hitting/more versatile tames in general (depending 
on which animal you tame).  We also plan to add an archery
specialization that allows rangers to shoot at different
cadences with greater precision, and to allow archers to 
ready a shot and loose it at an opportune time.

For mages, we are planning on removing the invisible power
that the elemental specializations provide, and replace it 
with tangible and thematic benefits for choosing that spec.
Fire mages are good at catching things on fire, cold mages
are good at slowing down and controlling their enemies, 
lightning mages have learned how to tap into this most fickle
element more frequently, and to more stunning effect than 
others, and dark mages have learned how to take the 
darkness that they fling at enemies and make it both
more pervasive and more widespread.

For mystics, illusion specialists will have access to 
confuse (as they  currently) do, and a more powerful 
hallucinate than a traditional mystic. Aggressive 
guardians will be a bit smarter (and not throw themselves)
in danger, and will learn a new trick for hitting enemies 
harder.  Protective guardians may get some adjustment as 
well, if necessary.  Regeneration and protection specialists
are the least defined, but these characters should have 
abilities that allow them to heal or protect both themselves
and their allies more effectively.

For all of these changes to happen, some base power will end
up getting removed from classes so that we end up in a 
balanced state at the end.  Some existing abilities will be
get numbers changed, others will get functionality changes,
and others may end up being gated behind specializations.
There isn't any intent to nerf existing characters, but 
characters that are currently "good at everything" will 
probably end up being better at one thing and worse at the
others after the patch.

At the end of the day, however, we still want RotS to feel
like RotS, and to essentially be the same game that it 
currently is.  We'll be prudent with the changes that we 
make, ensuring that we keep the existing identity behind
changed abilities as much as possible.  Where that isn't
possible, we'll make sure that we have a good reason why,
and a good alternative in place.

We'd love to answer any questions or get any feedback that
you guys have about these proposals.  At the end of the day,
the game belongs to you.  We're just trying to steer it into
a more awesome direction moving forward.  I'll take a look
at the responses to this post tomorrow (and continuously),
and I am sure that Matt and Seth will as well.

- Dave